# Machine learning approach to butterfly species classification
This repository contains code, data sets and figures used in my master thesis, as well as some of the results. The models themselves are not available here due to their size, however they can be easily reproduced using the repository.  

### Summary of the thesis
With the continuous development of machine learning and its applications, the study on machine learning approach to butterfly species classification was conducted. Five convolutional neural network models (VGG16, VGG19, ResNet50, MobileNet and Inception v3) were evaluated in the task of butterfly species classification in the case of 75 different species. The models were pretrained on the ImageNet data set and adapted using transfer learning techniques to the new task. Then, they were trained on a data set retrieved from Internet and additionally evaluated on a private collection of butterfly photographs captured in the wild. All the models achieved accuracy above 90% on the test set and above 70% on the private collection. Next, influence of the image quality on recognition was examined by transforming images using image processing techniques (such as brightness adjustmend, Gaussian noise, blurring etc.). It showed that decreasing the quality of images has a significant impact on the accuracy of the models. Data augmentation using the same techniques did not bring any improvement in the standard evaluation, but allowed the models to obtain remarkably better results in the assesment of image quality influence. The best performing model in all evaluations was the Inception v3 model with the accuracy of ca. 98% on the test set, 86% on the private collection and with over 30 species out of 75 with the perfect precision and recall scores.

